---
title: A Restatement
layout: post
---

I am really still not satisifed to move on with this blog, so I would
like to take a few minutes to review and restate the point I am trying
to make. 

Code is *extremely* powerful, and having the ability to create it is
extremely useful. There are lots of places on the internet
which call code the "new literacy", and I thorougly agree. The ability
to use machines to explore thoughts that would be otherwise impossible
is just amazing. 

The thing is, programming is still a really young field. There is a ton that we
still don't understand about it. We like to talk about best practices,
but we really don't know what programming will look like one hundred
years from now. We don't have any idea if these best practices hold
any general truth. There is a lot to learn. 

The difference between test driven development and regular
run-and-pray development is striking. To me, the various pieces that
go into test driven development seemed like they would be really
useful elsewhere. For example, streamlining the creating, setting up,
and tearing down of environments with specific properties seems
extremely useful in different situations, not just in code testing. 

The point is: writing code beyond what gets shipped as part of a
product has extreme benefits. One aspect of this is test driven
development, but this extends to installation scripts, deployment
scripts, and process scripts. 

Phew, and now I think I am ready to move on to some actual useful
instances of these things. Stay tuned. 

