---
layout: post
title: An Update
---

Wow. It has been a little over a year. Time for an update. The last
year has been pretty crazy, and I have learned quite a bit. I have not
been living under a rock, but as far as the rest of the world is
concerned, I may as well have been. Most of my
personal time has been focused around figuring out the nature of
programming, test driven development, and language. So, time for some
reflection. 

All code can act as documentation, as long as you know how to read
it. A program's most authoratative and correct documentation is its
code. This doesn't help much when a language is hard to read, but
using higher level languages can be a big help. Bash scripts make
this pretty cool because the script contents are basically the same
thing that you would be writing to accomplish the task. 

Writing support code for your application is great. This includes
things like deployment and build scripts, development scripts,
and environment setup files. Scripts like this provide 
documentation for your application, besides 

Tests are a type of support code. They are 
beneficial in that it allows us to test the state of our
application during development, and thus avoid bugs an enable
refactoring. 
I learned test driven development in the context of
functional and unit tests, but I have since learned that the
discussion of testing than these types. 
Testing the state and behavior of external services, 
for example, would be very wrong in TDD. Should we ignore writing 
code to test these though? 

There is more to come, but I really needed to get this out there. I'm
writing a blog, not a book.  
